In this video, we will explore
the flexibility of the MDP
formalism with a few examples.
By the end of this video,
you will gain
experience formalizing
decision-making problems as MDPs,
and appreciate the flexibility
of the MDP formalism.
Consider recycling
robot which collects
empty soda cans in
an office environment.
It can detect soda cans,
pick them up using his gripper,
and dropped them off
in a recycling bin.
The robot runs in
a rechargeable battery.
Its objective is to collect
as many cans as possible.
Let's formulate
this problem as an MDP.
We will start with the states,
actions, and rewards.
Let's assume that the sensors
can only distinguish
two charged levels, low and high.
These charged levels
represent the robot's state.
In each state, the robot
has three choices.
It can search for cans for
a fixed amount of time,
it can remain stationary
and wait for someone
to bring in a can,
or it can go to
the charging station
to recharge its battery.
We only allow recharging
from the low state
because recharging is pointless
when the energy level is high.
Now, let's consider
the transition dynamics.
First, let's try the states
using open circles.
Searching for cans when
the energy level is
high might reduce
the energy level to low.
That is the search
action in the state
high might not change the state.
Let's say with probability Alpha,
or the energy level might drop to
low with probability
one minus Alpha.
In both cases, the robots search
yields a reward of r_search.
For instance, r_search
could be plus 10
indicating that
the robot found 10 cans.
The robot can also wait.
Waiting for cans does
not drain the battery,
so the state does not change.
In both cases, the wait action
yields a reward of r_wait.
For example, r_wait
could be plus one.
Searching when
the energy level is
low might deplete the battery,
then the robot would
need to be rescued.
Let's write this probability
as one minus Beta.
If the robot is rescued then
its battery is restored.
However, needing rescue yields
a negative reward of r_rescued.
For example, r_rescued
could be minus
20 because we were
annoyed with the robot.
Alternatively, the battery
might not run out.
This occurs with
probability beta and
the robot receives
a reward of r_search.
Taking the recharge action
restores the battery
to the level high and
receives a reward at zero.
That's it. We have completely
specified the MDP for
the recycling robot problem.
We have discussed
one example where an MDP
is used to precisely
specify a problem.
But you might wonder, how
general is this framework?
The MDP formalism can be used
in many different applications,
in many different ways.
States can be low-level
sensory readings,
for example, in the pixel values
of the video frame.
They can also be high-level
such as object descriptions.
Similarly, actions
can be low-level,
such as the wheel speed
of this robot.
Actions can also be high-level,
such as go to
the charging station.
Time-steps can be very
small or very large.
For example, they can be
one millisecond or one month.
Let's look at
one more application.
Suppose we want to use
reinforcement learning to control
a robot arm in
a pick-and-place task?
The goal of the robot
is to pick up
objects and place them in
a particular location.
There are many ways we
can formalize this task.
Here's one possibility.
The state could be
the readings of
the joint angles and velocities.
The actions could be the
voltages applied to each motor.
The reward could be plus 100 for
successfully placing each object.
But we also want the robot to
use as little energy as possible.
So let's include
a small negative reward
corresponding to the energy used.
That was not so hard.
To recap, the MDP framework
can be used to formalize
a wide variety of sequential
decision-making problems.